 

CHAPTER II

DER â€”
IR=- ITS MARCH FROM A sMaLL KINGDOM TO THE STATUS OF A DISTRICT

 

SULTAN KHEL AND PAINDA KHEL

THE ORIGIN: Tarkan and Yousaf were two brothers, originally
belonging to Ziada (Sawabi) in the 13 century A.D. The descendants
of Tarkan are called as Tarkani and the tribes occupying the area
of Salarzai, Mamoond and Utman Knel in Bajaur and the area of
Maidan, Jandool and the area of Barawal up to Ganori and Salamkot
in Dir District. :

The descendants of Yousaf are called as Yousafzai and they are
prevailing in the areas of Buner, Mardan, Sawabi, Swat, Dir, Sind
(the area of Dir District from Rabat downward on both side the
Panjkora river up to the foot of Kamrani) Talash and Adenzai. In
the north Yousafzai tribes are present up to Sharingal Gadgadeen
(the barrier between Kohistan and Sharingal).

Paind whose descendants are called as Painda Khel, is) the
grand-grand-grand son of Yousaf. The link goes like this: Painda
son of Ghori, son of Kahay, son of Akoo son of Yousaf. Therefore,
they are called Yousafzai.

Painda's father Ghori lived in Nikpi Khel, Swat. After his
death his wife migrated to Kuhna Dher (now called as Haji Abad) a
few kilometers ahead of Balambat. The mother brought this child in
her lap. She was later on married to a man called as Maly Baba.
Sultan was the child of Maly Baba from this woman. Thus Painda and
Sultan were brothers from the same mother.

MALY (14TH CENTURY

Maly is the grand father of Malizai tribe. He was the son of
Khwajur, son of Akoo son of Yousaf. Maly was called as Maly Baba
because he was respected in the area for his religious preaching
and also political domination. his influence was prevalent in
Sind, Maidan, Barawal and Kohistan.

Maly Baba had two sons, Awsa Khan and Nusrat Khan from his
first wife. A third son Sultan was born from the newly Married
widow, the mother of Painda. Maly after whose name his descendants
are called as Malizai tribe. sub divided his landed property and
estate among his sons. He also gave share to his step-son Painda.
